---
title: "27 myths about yoga that you need to stop believing"
date:  2014-12-27 04:04:53 +0800
categories:
  - "Lifestyle"
banner: "/blog/2014/12/yoga-myths-abstract.jpg"
tags: [yoga, fitness]
---
Here are some interesting Google statistics:
^
<blockquote>
Toilet yoga: 15,700,000 results<br/>
Teletubbies yoga: 3,060,000 results<br/>
Yoga with dinosaur: 817,000 results<br/>
Dubstep yoga: 544,000 results<br/>
Sailor Moon yoga: 519,000 results<br/>
Pink panther yoga: 470,000 results<br/>
Yoga toothbrush holder: 304,000 results<br/>
</blockquote>
As you can see, a lot of people are talking about yoga, even with things that are unrelated with yoga. Teletubbies. Pink Panther. Sailor Moon. I'm sure a search on Pikachu Yoga will fetch some interesting results too. With so many people talking, rumors and myths about yoga start to spread. Some are acceptably reasonable concerns but others are just down right ridiculous.

## Yoga myths
Here are 27 of them, starting with the appetizers.

### 1. I can’t do yoga, I am not flexible enough
Even more, you should start practicing some asanas to loosen those muscles.

### 2. Yoga is a slimming regimen
Maybe you will slim down, maybe not. Being fat is a complex physiological response which has no magic bullet solution.

### 3. Yoga cures
Yoga doesn’t cure you of your depression or whatsoever, but it helps in the process of healing.

### 4. Yoga helps you to sweat out toxins
Great, we are throwing the science of detoxing through lungs, livers and kidneys out of the real world hur?

### 5. Yoga is a girly thing, real men don’t do yoga
Real men change light bulbs, are the breadwinner, don’t cry, don’t show too much emotions, blah, blah, blah. Are we not done with the stereotyping of men?

### 6. If one hour of yoga asana is good for you, then three hours must be good. Oh wait, make it five
Ah, all that time sending light all over your body must be pure bliss.

### 7. The perfect forms of the asanas and you will get it one day
Our body structures are all different. We should adapt the asanas to fit our body and not the other way round.

### 8. You have to practice a fix set of asanas
Read note #7, I’m not repeating myself.

### 9. Even if it is purely physical, it is still yoga. Isn’t yogalympics a thing nowadays?
Judge not.

### 10. Allow your heart to blossom in your practice
Do you want to see the lotus in front of my chest?

### 11. Backbends will help you to open your heart
Open your heart, let your blood gush out and decorate the class with a shimmering part of your every being.

### 12. You have to clear your nose with a neti pot
The only thing I clean my nose with is a tissue and my forefinger.

### 13. You have to wear yoga tights to yoga class
Well, fair enough, just no sheer tights, please.

### 14. Mala beads look cool on yoga practitioners
No. Do you even know what they mean?

### 15. Lululemon and Double Buddhasana is the sign that you have reach the highest form of yoga
Mmm. That’s a sign of fat wallet and flexible limbs to me. No more, no less.

### 16. That a highest form of yoga exist
Samadhi? Maybe, but I never meet anyone who said they have been there.

### 17. Padmasana is the way to sit in order to gain enlightenment
Yes, by numbing all your nerves and transporting you into another realm call A&E.

### 18. Yoga is a religion, and my religion tells me not to believe in other religion
Yoga is not a religion. I am an atheist and my atheism tells me not to believe in other religion too. High 5!

### 19. Going into animal postures is evil
So is swimming frog style and practicing chinese martial art. Oh wait, have you seen the trailer of Alice in Wonderland by The Royal Opera House?

### 20. You will be possess by the evil snake spirit if you practice yoga
“Ssss SsHHHH sssszzzz”, that’s me trying to communicate with my snake spirit.

### 21. And you will start wriggling like a snake
A;lfhd oaehroefajs ;fl f, oh sorry, I was just wriggling  adfsadfq dfat adf on my adf atrgf  afda  keyboard.

### 22. Once you practice yoga, you start seeing energy forms around you
Have you not seen the light?

### 23. Your internal system and being will light up through yoga
Jingle bells, jingle bell, enlightenment is on the way. Oh what joy, it is to be an enlightened Christmas Tree.

### 24. We are going to spend all day talking about energy, beings or energy beings
The fundamental of energy is that it can be converted in forms, but not created or destroyed. Ok, let's move on.

### 25. All yoga teachers can do headstand and put their legs behind their head
Prepare a stretcher for me while I do this, I might just get stuck and need to be pried open.

### 26. Yoga teachers are all balanced human beings and can really hold their sh*t together
We are still human, and as human, we screw up from time to time.

### 27. That there will ever be a comprehensive list to tell you how to be a good yoga practitioner
Now, go live your life to the best of your abilities and spread the love and goodness in you.

Do you know of any other yoga myths? Share it with us at the comment section below.
